# BIRD KILLER

A simple game for killing time. Delivered as the final project for Harvard's CS50’s Introduction to Computer Science course.

### Video Demo:  (linkas i video prisatyma)

Watch the video to see me explain everything in my not-at-all Eastern European accent.

### Check it out [`live`](https://bird-killer.vercel.app/)

Don't judge the game too much, it has only one mechanic (killing birds with clicks) and poor collision detection. Also is rather ugly. Try to hack it though. I trust my backend provider.

Deployment was done via [`Vercel`](https://vercel.com/), which is in essence created for my tech stack. After the code was finished it took like 2 minutes to connect it to this github repo and get a live link, which is updated on every change pushed to main branch.

## Description

A simple game implementation with [`SvelteKit`](https://kit.svelte.dev/) for the frontend and [`Supabase`](https://supabase.com/) for the backend. Players can create an account, kill some birds, save their high score if they so wish, and log out. The birds never stop coming, so the carnage need not cease. If the players save their score, they will find it the next time they log in and can try to beat it, if not, will start fresh from 0.

The actual magic and most of the coding happened first in Typescript. It was surprisingly (relatively) simple to animate something on the screen using the HTML canvas element. Check out src/components/gameCanvas.svelte, most of the game logic is there in between the script tags + in src/classes/raven.ts. The canvas element provides a context API with all the methods for drawing lines, and squares, moving them, and so on. The basic principle is the same as for all motion pictures - we show many images in quick succession to imitate motion. With simple functions and high-school-level math, one can create amazing things. Collision detection was very simple, just need to find the screen coordinates of the mouse click and check if it overlaps with a raven picture. Easy to set up that is, collision detection needs fine-tuning, so if you miss a direct hit, it's not you, it's my code:)

So after the core game logic was written with TS in a nodeJS environment, I realized that I needed separate pages for player login/logout/registration, wanted to refactor the source code and use separate files for classes and assets, needed dynamic UI updates, and so on. That's when I decided to use SvelteKit to kill all these birds with one framework.

## Why Typescript?

I used TS because I can't write vanilla Javascript anymore, I need type safety. TS to JS is like C++ to C, it's a superset and enhances the original language in many ways.

## Why SvelteKit?

I used a Javascript framework as JS is the defacto language and technology of the web. It's widely used, works, and I work with it in my day job at a fin-tech startup. A JS framework like Svelte solves many annoying problems, like page routing, allows proper refactoring by creating components, handles a ton of initial configuration, and provides a good developer experience.

I hope no poor souls need to work with Flask or Django. Python is a mere scripting language, beloved by people, who are not programmers or coders, such as researchers, scientists, etc. In small chunks, it's great, but I would not want to write a proper web app with it.

I chose Svelte and SvelteKit because I wanted to learn something new and sexy. I work with react usually.

## Why Supabase?

Supabase as a backend as a service provider simplified authentication and provided a Postgres database for persistent player score storage. I found using it faster, more effective, and akin to real-world job experience rather than implementing authentication and database features from scratch on my own.

I liked writing SQL queries and enjoyed the murder mystery problem greatly. It paid off as I better understood what happens under the hood of the amazing Supabase dashboard. Alas, I wanted to learn something practical and applicable to future projects and was not disappointed. Highly recommend giving Supabase a try. There are many such services, but the fact that it provides everything that Firebase does + it's open source + very generous free tier sealed the deal.

All of the backend interactions happen in .server.ts files, where you can find the calls, selects, auth requests, and so on to my Supabase project.

## To run locally

I suggest not, because it needs a Supabase account with a Scores table to work locally. Explaining how to work with this service is outside the scope of this project, but Supabase provides superb documentation and tutorials.

If you still want to do it, create a Supabase account, start a new project, and create a Scores table with this schema:

```sql
create table
  scores (
    id bigint generated by default as identity primary key,
    user_id uuid references auth.users not null,
    score integer not null,
    inserted_at timestamp with time zone default timezone ('utc'::text, now()) not null
  );

alter table scores enable row level security;

create policy "Individuals can create scores." on scores 
for insert with check (auth.uid () = user_id);

create policy "Individuals can view their own scores." on scores 
for select using (auth.uid () = user_id);

create policy "Individuals can update their own scores." on scores
for update using (auth.uid () = user_id);

create policy "Individuals can delete their own scores." on scores
for delete using (auth.uid () = user_id);
```

Then clone this repo and create a ```.env.local``` file at the root directory, which should be ```bird-killer``` after cloning.

NEVER COMMIT THIS FILE TO ANY REPO!

Or any ```.env``` file for that matter. They are meant to hold secrets. The current ```.gitignore``` will protect you from that.

Populate the file with your url and key from Supabase as strings:

```env
PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL="your-url"
PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY="your-key"
```

Finally, run these free commands in the terminal:

```bash
cd bird-killer
npm install
npm run dev
```

BUM! Should see something cool at <http://localhost:5173/>. Happy hacking!:)
